Editing coding style (#1950)
UniMath/SymmetryBookFormalization: docs/CODINGSTYLE.md

# The agda-unimath library coding style guide

The agda-unimath library is an ever-expanding library of formalized mathematics
from a univalent point of view. Agda-unimath stands as the largest library of

> formalized mathematics in the Agda proof assistant, covering a broad range of

Reviewer: I'm not sure being "the largest library [...]" should be part of the _coding style guide_. We're certainly happy and proud to be "the largest [...]" but that shouldn't guide the style of the contributions.

Moreover, at any point, some _other_ "library of formalized mathematics in the Agda proof assistant" may become larger than Agda-unimath, which would turn this statement into false-advertising.

Why not just _a large library [...]_, or _one of the largest [...]_?

Author: Fair point! I'll edit it

Reviewer 2: > I'm not sure being "the largest library [...]" should be part of the _coding style guide_. We're certainly happy and proud to be "the largest [...]" but that shouldn't guide the style of the contributions.
> 
> Moreover, at any point, some _other_ "library of formalized mathematics in the Agda proof assistant" may become larger than Agda-unimath, which would turn this statement into false-advertising.
> 
> Why not just _a large library [...]_, or _one of the largest [...]_?

I like the wording "one of the largest" because it is less arrogant, and gives flexibility. Being "the largest" calls for us to define the metric we are measuring ourselves against other libraries on. For instance, we are not the largest library in terms of community. If the metric is "lines of code", then any John with enough LLM tokens can generate a "larger" library in a week. Lines of code is a terrible metric for quality.

Author: I think the point I was trying to make in this text was that agda-unimath is a large library, so we are necessarily serious about coding style. I think "one of the largest" is still comparative, which is unnecessary in the context of a coding style, and just "a large library" is better imho. It's just a large chunk of work.

mathematical subjects. The library's corresponding website displays the
formalization pages in a markdown book, with over 3000 separate pages as of
May 2026.

In this coding style guide we will outline some of the design principles of
these pages. The purpose of these principles is to create a clean framework
through which we present our work, and to ensure good maintainability and
reusability of the code. A core value of our formalization project is conceptual
clarity and readability. We hope that with this style guide, we are able to help
new contributors write code that is both functional and understandable, as well
as easily maintainable.

Please reach out to us if you have any questions or remarks about the
agda-unimath style, or need any help getting started with your formalization

> project.

Reviewer 2: Since you mention reaching out, please also provide means to get in touch. E.g. the discord server?

Author: Good point, thanks!

## Code structuring conventions

One critical aspect of maintaining such a large codebase lies in efficient and
strategic code structuring, and continued refactoring, into small, reusable
entries. In line with this approach, we aim to factor out and encapsulate even
the tiniest bits of reusable logic or computation in their own definitions.

### Small entries with simple structure

In the agda-unimath library, we have some, but very few long entries. Indeed, it
has been remarked upon that most of our code looks like boiler-plate code. This
is by design. By breaking down entries into small and simple entries, we make
the library easier to maintain in several ways: Faster compilation; cleaner
appearance; the code will break less, or less severely, if definitions are
changed. Moreover, by factoring parts out of a proof or construction, they
become elements of the recorded knowledge base of agda-unimath.

Other obvious benefits of refactoring your code into small parts is that these
parts thereby become reusable across the library. Work that is properly
refactored is more easily understood and used by others, which is ultimately

> what it's all about.

Reviewer 2: The final sentence here sounds a bit withheld. The easiest fix is:

```suggestion
Other obvious benefits of refactoring your code into small parts is that these
parts thereby become reusable across the library. Work that is properly
refactored is more easily understood and used by others, which is ultimately
what it's all about!
```

### Representation independence

Most of our concepts are introduced along with a "user interface", which

> consists of entries that specify and determine the basic use cases of a concept.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
consists of entries that specify and determine the basic use cases of the concept.
```

This way, our code itself serves as a practical guide on how it can be used
later in new definitions. Furthermore, later code that correctly uses the

> interface functions for a concept don't depend on the specific implementations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
interface of a concept don't depend on the specific implementations
```

> of its dependants, which makes them conceptually a lot cleaner, and more robust

Reviewer 2: I believe you mean its dependencies here, which is the dual of dependants.

```suggestion
of its dependencies, which makes them conceptually a lot cleaner, and more robust
```

to change. John C. Reynolds explained the benefits of representation
independence more fully in {{#cite Reynolds1974}}.

In essence, our code structuring conventions are designed and practiced with the

> goal of making the library as conceptually clear and as understandable as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
goal of making the library as conceptually clear and understandable as
```
